PAUL LEWIS: Right, let's have
a little chat about a brand
new API that's just coming
out on the platform called
the Media Session API.
I heard about it--
when I started doing this
up, it was mentioned to me
by a couple of the
Chrome engineers.
But Francois, who's
on my team-- there's
a brilliant Google
web developer's update
where he explains in complete
detail about how to set up
the Media Sessions API.
So check the notes below.
We're going to pop
in a link for that.
But I will just show you
briefly what it actually
looks like in the context of
the app on the iPhone here.
In fact, because you
probably can't see it,
let's switch across to
the direct screen cam.
There you go.
That's what it looks
like on the phone.
So it's going to start
playing a video like this.
La la la, you see that if
I swipe down from the top,
we actually get a notification,
which has an icon here,
and it has Play and Rewind
and Fast-forward buttons.
And you get to configure
those yourself.
In fact, let me go into
another one of these videos
where I think I've actually set
up to load some custom album
art as well.
So there's me and Jake.
And you can see here, now we've
got a custom album art, which
is the picture of Jake.
And the previous-- and next the
Fast-forward and Rewind buttons
are actually set to be Skip
Forward 30 and Go Back 30.
So I should be able to
tap that and go forward
30, which you can see there.
Oh, it's just skipped
it right to the end.
Whoops a daisy.
But I can replay the video.
Don't worry.
The other thing that actually
does, which I really like,
is if I turn off the screen
and then on again, you actually
see that the picture,
the album art,
is actually the picture for
my phone in the background.
That is very exciting, isn't it?
So let me show you a little
bit as well, since we're here--
let me show you a
little bit of the code.
It's very straightforward.
We have a quick check, whether
we support the media session
API, which is basically
looking for-- let
me show you, actually.
It is just simply looking for
Media Session in Navigator.
And if we have Media
Session in Navigator,
then we consider ourselves
having the Media Session API,
and da-ding, da-ding, what
we do is we say Media--
Navigator.mediasession.metadata,
and then we
create one of these new
media metadata thingamajigs.
Very exciting.
[? Easlin ?] doesn't
like it, doesn't
think it's a real thing.
It is a real thing.
You can totally use it.
And you give it things like the
title, the album, the artwork.
I've only set the 512 and
the 256, but very much
like your manifest files
for progressive web apps,
you can set as many
of these as you need
and the user agent will
choose whichever one it thinks
makes the most sense for
the device that it's on.
And it will upscale and
downscale as necessary.
But I currently am just
letting a couple of them.
I may need more as time goes by.
And then afterwards, after
we've set up the metadata,
we set some action
handlers for things
like the play, the pause,
the seat backwards,
and the seat forwards.
The thing to bear in mind
here is that any that you set
will have the buttons
appear in the notification.
If you don't set one,
because there are other ones
you can set as well--
I forget which ones they are,
but check out Francois' post.
He explains the
whole kit caboodle.
Any that you don't
set, won't appear.
Any that you do set, will
appear in the notification.
And then somebody can
control your stuff
from the lock screen, or by
just dragging down from the top.
All very good, isn't it, that?
And very straightforward
code to be writing.
So a brilliant little
progressive enhancement thing
that you can choke on, and that
I have choked on my media app.
Cool!
Toodaloo!
Hey, folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there
is more content that you
can find kind of over here-ish.
And if you want to subscribe,
there's probably a button,
I don't know, maybe there?
Maybe somewhere around there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant!